clarify visual authoring order vs mathematical application for transform property (#43496)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/properties/transform/index.md

Reviewer: Let's expand on this a bit more. The second sentence can be moved alongside example intro.

```suggestion
- Box 1 (first `translateX()`, then `rotate()`): The coordinate space first shifts `200px` along the X axis, then rotates `135deg` within that shifted space, so the element ends up to the right of its original position, rotated.
- Box 2 (first `rotate()`, then `translateX()`): The coordinate space first rotates `135deg`, so the element then moves `200px` along the rotated axis, in the direction shown by the dotted lines.
  
Alternatively, when mapping a point to the parent coordinate space, the functions apply in the reverse order (right to left):
- Box 1: The element first rotates `135deg`, then moves `200px` along the original X axis.
- Box 2: The element first moves `200px` along the original X axis, then rotates `135deg`.
```

Reviewer 2: Do we need this page to expand on *both* perspectives? i.e. is there high practical value in showing people how it would work if they wanted to read it RtL?

From my perspective, that feels confusing and I'm wondering why someone would want or need to read composite transforms RtL since that requires a different approach to coordinate space, even if it's technically correct.

To me, it feels more practical to only talk and demonstrate how the authored order (LtR) works, then there's consistency that's fully practical. They can see that each transform establishes a new coordinate space (i.e. rotating also rotates the translation axes/translating also translates the transform origin) and it's clear from there. I feel like introducing the idea of mapping a point to the parent coordinate space is out of this doc's scope and more of a "technically this is what happens under the hood mathematically" (which is suitable for the official spec of course). And I think it may have been that part of the spec that led to the current confusing wording in the first place.

Reviewer: You have a fair point, @mao-sz, but I see no harm in providing an alternate mental mapping for readers.

With the proposed changes, the original confusion that came from mixing both framings without explaining how they are related will be resolved.

Also note that there are other pages like [`transform-origin`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/transform-origin) and [`transform-function`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/transform-function) that use the R-to-L language on MDN. So it would be good to have that explanation (with an example) as well.

Reviewer 2: That's fair, thanks for pointing that out :+1:

Reviewer: Hi @low-perry, thanks a lot for applying the other changes!

Are you intentionally choosing to not use the "Alternatively,..." explanation text for the example

- {{cssxref("&lt;transform-function&gt;")}}
  - : One or more of the [CSS transform functions](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/transform-function) to be applied.

>     The transform functions are multiplied in order from left to right. Each function establishes a new coordinate system for the ones following it, so the visual result follows the written order. Mathematically, this is equivalent to applying them in reverse order (right to left).

Reviewer: - suggesting replacing "multiplied" to make it clearer
- using "coordinate space" for consistency with the term used in L10
- rephrased 2nd sentence to draw clearer distinction between the two ways to look at the result

```suggestion
    The transform functions are combined from left to right – each function establishes a new coordinate space for the next function and so on – so the visual result matches the written order of the functions. Alternatively, keeping the parent coordinate space fixed, the same transformation can be described as applying the functions in reverse order (right to left).
```

Author: @dipikabh This sounds much better. Thank you

> ### Transform order

Reviewer: let's make this title more explicit

```suggestion
### Comparing the order of transform functions
```

The order of transform functions matters. Visually, transforms follow the written order (left to right) because each function establishes a new coordinate system for the functions that follow it.

> In this example, two boxes are rotated and translated by the same values; only the transform function order is different.

Reviewer: we can skip repeating this part and instead, add explanation to the "Result" instead.

```suggestion
The order of transform functions matters.

In this example, two boxes are rotated and translated by the same values but the functions are in the opposite order. The dotted lines mark the X axis before and after rotation.
```
